In this video I'm gonna explain the idea of composing functions.
So if we have a function f, and another function g,
so here I've chosen  x squared and cosine x,
but you can change them in the sidebar
we can form a new function by taking the output of f
and using that as the input to g.
So here's what the graph of that looks like.
Let's step through this slowly.
First we plug our x value into f, then we
take the y value that f spit out
and use that as the x value for g.
And then whatever g spits out is
the value of the composed function at x.
The reason we're interested in this concept is that
if we've got a complicated function and
we can break it down as a composite of simpler functions,
we can often understand something about the complicated
function just by understanding it for each of the simpler
functions individually, which is a lot easier.
For example, in calculus we're interested
in tangent lines to a curve. The chain rule says that
the slope of the tangent line at a point on the
composite  graph is the product of the slopes of
the tangent lines at the corresponding points on
the graphs of f and g, as you can see here.